[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: We've
all heard about the benefit
in cooperating as
a team, whether it
be in a relationship, at
work, with friends or family.
For some of us, it's more a
spiritual, abstract notion.
While in truth, the benefits
can be scientifically mapped
in the brain.
Dr. Jeffrey Fannin
has been working
with brain mapping
for more than a decade
for the purpose of understanding
states of consciousness
that engage whole-brain states.
Not only is he proving
that whole-brain states are
the pathway to intuitive
connection with self and those
beyond, he's proving
that consideration,
positive feedback,
and cooperation
are essential to repairing
ourselves and our societies.
You're about to see your brain
in living color in these higher
states of function.
Welcome.
I've seen a lot of
these images already.
Not only are they beautiful
to see ourselves in this way,
but it's also very
graphic to see
what we do to
ourselves with various,
say, less beneficial
brain states.
And before we get into
all that, first, we
interviewed Rob Williams.
The two of you work together.
And we talked there
about PSYCH-K,
and how we can change
our internal subconscious
beliefs so that we have a chance
of really patterning ourselves
in a new way.
And where that story leaves
off is where your work comes in
because you started
documenting and mapping
what this actually means to us.
>>JEFFERY FANNIN: I really
didn't imagine that that's
what I would be doing.
It kind of happened a
little bit by accident.
When we met, I was actually
setting up somebody
to do brain mapping,
and teaching them.
And they were telling me about
this whole thing of PSYCH-K.
And I had never
heard of that before.
And I said, well, if
it's brainwave energy,
we should be able to somehow map
that and do something with it.
So, because I had done a lot
of brain mapping on myself,
I knew what my brain
map looked like.
So we did a pre and a post.
And in between the
pre and post maps,
we did what's called an
optimal health balance.
And so once we processed
it, and I looked at it,
and I was shocked--
I mean literally shocked.
It was like brains in my
world, they don't do this.
What is this all about?
>>REGINA: They don't
change that rapidly.
>>FANNIN: They don't change--
>>REGINA: You don't see
shifts that rapidly.
>>FANNIN: It was in a
space of about 40 minutes.
And so I spent three
days actually trying
to explain it away.
That's the scientist in me that
said, OK, it had to be the cap,
it had to be the equipment,
it had to be something.
But I couldn't explain it away.
And then I began to
think about, all right,
if I can't explain it away,
and we've got a real phenomenon
here, then what is it?
And that's when I
began to break it down,
and looking at the
different frequencies.
What does it mean?
And is this some sort of a
message for me to understand?
And as I began to
understand that,
then that's when I got
Rob's number and called him.
And it was like finding
my long-lost brother.
Instant connection,
just right there.
>>REGINA: And that's what
he had with Bruce Lipton.
And now the three of you
are working together.
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
The funny thing is,
our birthdays are all
five days apart.
>>REGINA: What time of the year?
>>FANNIN: Libras.
>>REGINA: You're all Libras?
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Oh, amazing.
Very interesting.
OK, looking for balance
all the time, right?
>>FANNIN: [CHUCKLES] That's it.
That's what we do.
The whole brain
state in balance.
So anyway, he decided, after
we had talked a few times,
to come down to my clinic
in Glendale, Arizona.
And we would start
looking at this.
We had no idea where to go.
There was no roadmap for
this, because you can't just
go out and look at the
scientific literature,
and this guy did this, and
Dr. So-and-So did that.
There is no roadmap.
>>REGINA: Right.
You're creating them.
>>FANNIN: Yeah, we're
creating the roadmap.
And so it was definitely
new territory.
There are ancillary pieces
of science and information
that are available to us.
But we sat down, and then began
to just say, all right, well,
let's just kind of let spirit
guide us in this process.
>>REGINA: Which
is, I have to say,
that's big, in and of
itself, for a neuroscientist.
I mean, that's not where
most guys go when they're
embarking upon a new study.
>>FANNIN: That's true.
That's true.
It's very difficult
for a scientist who's
grounded in science to then
say, all right, let's do some--
but I was always that way.
Human behavior
was something that
was very interesting to me.
And so I was formerly an airline
pilot in one of my careers.
And during that time, when
it started to wind down
and they were having layoffs
and things in the airlines,
that's when I
decided, well, I think
I'll go back and get
my PhD in psychology.
Because human interest
was so fascinating to me.
I wanted to know, why do we
do the things that we do?
And how do we become what
it is that we become?
And why can two people in
the same family, one go one
direction, and one go another?
And that was all very
fascinating to me.
I just needed to know.
I don't know why
I needed to know.
But I would do a lot of things--
my wife can tell you this.
I would be working
out in the yard.
And I'm listening to audiobooks.
I'm a big fan of audiobooks.
I listen to a lot of them.
And she would say, what
are you listening to?
Well, I'm listening to
this thing about Einstein
and E equals mc-squared.
And she'd just kind of roll her
eyes back and say, whatever.
But there was this hunger
for that knowledge.
And little did I know
that it was preparing me,
as all of my careers
have actually prepared
me, to do what I do now.
So when we started off
doing those recordings,
in over a year,
we did 125 cases.
This was the basis
of the research
and the scientific papers
that we wanted to write.
And the thing that
we wanted to do
was look at, if this
was a real phenomena,
how is it that we could
measure some of these somewhat
intangible kinds of things.
And because I was part
of, previously, a research
team at Arizona
State University,
we were looking at
neuroscience, and leadership,
and we did a number of
trips to West Point,
and we were looking at
complexity of thinking
and all kinds of
things like that.
So that training
helped me understand
how to do research on very
nebulous kinds of things.
So I had the tools with the
EEG, and also breaking it
down into what we
call quantitative EEG.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was going
to ask you about that.
What does that mean, QEG?
>>FANNIN: Yeah, QEG
is a quantitative
electroencephalogram.
And what it does is-- it's
kind of like the weather map
that you see, where they
have colored gradiations
of different temperatures.
Well, this is the
same kind of thing,
where you have different
colors of different frequencies
in the brain.
So as human beings,
we basically function
within these delta, theta,
alpha, beta, high-beta, gamma.
And that's kind of the range
that we mostly look at,
until we start looking at
higher levels of consciousness
and things like that
that go beyond that,
and other types of energy
and functions in the brain.
>>REGINA: And so just going
in there for a moment, when
you start getting into the
higher states of functioning,
and getting into gamma,
you're looking at people
like practicing
meditators, Buddhist monks,
and that sort of thing, right?
>>FANNIN: Exactly.
One of the fun things that
I've done over the years
is I like the idea
of how psychics work.
And I've got quite a
collection of people
who do psychic, and channeling,
and things like that,
that propose to have gifts.
And I wanted to know, how
did they use their brains
differently than maybe we do.
And so we've been
kind of exploring
some of that, which
led us to some
of the other parts of research.
But in the clinic we
use the brain mapping.
Because we work with a
lot of ADD, and anxiety,
and depression, and things
that people struggle with.
And brain mapping
helps us identify that.
So there are certain
patterns in the brain that
help us identify those things
like the ADD and so on.
And so from that,
we were able to look
at leadership in the same way--
are there patterns in the
brain that makes a good leader?
And we were able to look at
different types of leaders--
the visionary leader, and
the transformational leader--
>>REGINA: The
dictatorial leader?
>>FANNIN: The
Machiavellian leader--
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>FANNIN: --and all of those.
And we looked at those
in different elements.
And so the brain mapping
helped us understand that.
And then there were other
parts of the brain mapping
that's called joint time
frequency analysis, that--
I know, I'll try and keep it--
>>REGINA: Don't say those words.
>>FANNIN: [CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: Just tell
us what that means.
>>FANNIN: What that means is,
if there is a burst of energy
in the brain for a
particular reason--
if we are looking at courage,
when a person is courageous,
or when they are
hopeful, or when
they are being
resilient or deceptive,
there is an element
of the brain that
fires to allow that to happen.
>>REGINA: And you
can identify that.
>>FANNIN: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: If you could identify
this person with the EEG--
you put the sensors on.
And then they go through a
series of basic tests, right?
And then as you're
looking at that,
could you look at a person
and see, for example,
if they have courage or if they
have a deceptive capability
by looking at their brain map?
>>FANNIN: I think
we're closing in
on being able to do that with
a great deal of accuracy.
Right now, all we
have are models.
So we can say, this is what
the model of a visionary brain
looks like, or
somebody who is going
to be a good leader,
or somebody who has--
for me, it's just like
finding the patterns of what
ADD and anxiety look like.
And so we're now beginning to
diagram other kinds of things,
like people who have
these extra abilities.
If you have intuitiveness,
positive and negative thinking,
part of the brain
mapping when we
look at what's called LORETA,
Low Resolution Electromagnetic
Tomography, we're able to
determine, for example,
in the left-front part
of the brain, when that
is consistently lit up,
we know that a person has
more positive thinking,
that they are generally
a positive thinker.
And the opposite is true when
the right side lights up,
that they have more
negative thinking.
Now, the question
from that becomes,
if a person thinks
positively or negatively,
and that's their dominant
trait, can that be changed?
And we know that it can.
>>REGINA: Well, that's what
you're learning with Bruce.
You can see how
it can be changed,
and you're watching the
direct result of the brain
mapping, which is amazing.
>>FANNIN: And so the things
that we have learned from Bruce,
and epigenetic signals
and those kinds of things,
help us to understand the
effects of our thoughts,
of our emotions, and how those
all tie together and really
allow us-- there is
a definite connection
between our physical realm
and the spiritual realm.
And that's what I
wanted to find out.
>>REGINA: Yes, and I really want
to focus quite a bit on that.
Because this is an
area where there's
been a great rift between
science and the more
spiritual modalities, right?
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
I think we can thank Descartes
for starting us down that path.
>>REGINA: I think we can, too.
But the thing is,
your work is really
serving as one of
the primary bridges
in helping us understand the
reality of what's going on,
the physical reality of what's
going on when we're hooking up
with whatever it is.
>>FANNIN: Well, it's
not just my work.
There's a lot that
has gone on before me.
You look at Albert
Einstein and his work,
and understanding the
general theory of relativity
and how atoms work.
And then Heisenberg, and
what he began to help us
understand in terms
of quantum physics.
And then David Bohm
comes along and gives us
some more insight that there
are certain cortical structures
that the EEG--
and I went, oh, yeah,
well that makes sense,
and then started
looking at it from what
fires and doesn't fire.
>>REGINA: But you
have the pictures.
>>FANNIN: I have the pictures.
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
This is really a critical piece
for us, for the layperson.
>>FANNIN: As far as I
know, I'm the first person
to come along--
and this is where
Rob kind of turned my life
upside down and drug me
out of doing the kinds
of work that I was doing.
But I got to tell you, it is
the most fascinating stuff.
And I couldn't ask for anything
more challenging or more
rewarding than to
be able to do this.
Because we're talking about--
everybody has the
ability to do this.
It's just a matter
of knowing how.
>>REGINA: To do what?
>>FANNIN: To change the
function of your brain.
We do it all the time anyway--
when we learn to
ride a bicycle, when
we read a book, when those
neural pathways are developed.
It's the same thing that
we do in the clinic.
The brain map helps us
look at if the brain is
doing too much of something
or too little of something.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about that for a moment.
Let's get into some specifics.
I know you have
a lot of imagery.
Do you have imagery
of people-- as you
say, you started working with
people who were intuitive,
who were psychics, and
channelers, and so forth.
What was the dominant
firing up that you saw,
which portion of the brain?
And maybe you can give us just
a little tour of the brain,
from the frontals,
to the parietals,
occipitals, and so forth.
>>FANNIN: Well, I'll kind of
help you understand what--
from that work, being
able to look at that
and break that down based
on what I knew at that point
helped me to understand, once
we had done the optimal health
balance, what I was
seeing in those pictures.
Because in answer
to your question,
delta is a very prominent part.
It's like the gateway for
things to happen there.
>>REGINA: And that's when
we're often falling asleep.
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
Delta is dominant in
our sleep pattern.
>>REGINA: That's right, yeah.
>>FANNIN: But the interesting
thing, when they did
sleep studies, they
also found that there
was a presence of gamma.
And it's like, what is
gamma doing in delta--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>FANNIN: But what we are now
understanding in neuroscience
is that is the gateway.
Let me explain that
just a little bit.
The thalamus of
the brain is what
regulates all the
frequencies-- delta,
theta, alpha, beta, all of
those things that we look at.
So that little almond shape
in the center of the brain
is what manufacturers and
regulates those frequencies.
And so by doing that there,
I wanted to understand
how does information
from our brain
actually get out into the
biofield, if you will,
or the quantum field, and how
does information from there
get back in to us?
Well, at the top of the thalamus
there is a thalamic gate.
And that gate has a
set of reticular cells
that grow in a spiral, up
through the subconscious
part of the brain into
the conscious part.
And it comes out right here.
And in many cultures, that
is known as the crown chakra.
Essentially that's our antenna.
So if we are
generally functioning
with frequency information
from 1 to 60 hertz--
as human beings, that's
the general avenue
that we deal with--
well, we now know that
there is subtle energy--
and Nikola Tesla was trying
to help us understand that.
Many people have
seen the pictures
of him holding a light bulb, and
it's not hooked up to anything.
I use that as a demonstration
to show the plasma field
generation around that.
So we're talking
about plasma energy.
And well, what is plasma energy?
So if you take one of
those Tesla generators
and hold up a CFL bulb to
it without it being hooked
to anything, it will light up.
So it's like, how
does that work?
Well, it's a higher
form of energy.
So when we're talking
about higher consciousness,
it's the commingling of that
higher energy with whatever
our tuner is dealing with.
And so there are
two parts to that.
And I call our brain
function that deals
with our physiological
and our interaction
with the physical world,
that's called resonation.
So we have elements of
the brain that resonate.
It vibrates, the
cellular structure.
And this is what Bruce
talks about a lot in some
of his work, and being
able to understand
physically what goes on.
Then oscillation is information
from the field out there.
So those frequencies then
can get into the brain.
We can work with them.
>>REGINA: So you're
using the analogy
that the brain essentially
is a tuning device.
>>FANNIN: Pretty much.
I mean--
>>REGINA: Transmitter/receiver,
tuning device.
>>FANNIN: Yeah, there's
been a debate going on
for many, many years,
is the mind in here,
or is it out here?
>>REGINA: And what is
your opinion on it?
>>FANNIN: Well, my opinion
after what I've studied--
and I can't go back now--
is that the brain is
basically a transducer.
And the energy field is
what we interact with.
The only question is,
how good is your tuner?
And so we see this
in the clinic.
So when we see anxiety
and depression,
that's the resistance.
We see too much of a
particular frequency going on
in the brain.
And that is a pattern that's
associated with anxiety.
So can a person
interact with a field
more effectively when
that's not happening?
Not really.
The same thing with people
who are more intuitive,
that are psychic, who can
move back and forth with time
energy, you know, and talk
about the past, the present,
the future, those
kinds of things.
When there is too much
resistance-- here's an example.
I was working with one
gal who she came in
and she claimed to have
some psychic powers.
And so I did a brain map on her.
And we started looking at that.
And she had a lot of
posterior beta activity,
which is basically anxiety.
And a lot of what we
call hypercoherence.
The coherence was
all out of whack.
So we used neurofeedback to
basically tell the brain,
don't do that anymore.
And it created new
neural pathways.
So the process for that is
essentially telling the brain,
see this, do this,
see this, do this.
And by doing that
over and over again,
it causes new dendrites
to form in the brain,
new neural pathways to develop.
And those are the
pathways that then
fire rather than the old ones.
So what happened
with her, as with ADD
and anything else,
that got cleared up.
And she could use her intuitive
abilities much more readily.
She said it was kind of
like coming out of the fog.
>>REGINA: Isn't that
what's happening, though,
with the majority
of the population?
I mean, aren't people
generally, because
of the various external
pressures in life,
kind of in this beta overdrive?
Or else they've
dropped out entirely,
or just need to
anesthetize ourselves?
And that really
seems to me that is
what's blocking people's
access to their own intuition.
>>FANNIN: No question about it.
From what I've seen
over the years,
that is definitely the case.
We get locked up
into what goes on.
And it's our thought
patterns that really do that.
So when we look at perception--
and I know Rob talks a lot
about changing perception,
and so does Bruce.
Well, what exactly
is perception?
Perception is
whatever we make it.
Nothing in life has any
meaning except the meaning
that we give it.
And so if perception
then moves on
to become a subconscious
belief pattern,
the other side of that
is our thoughts also
do the same thing.
If I have the same thoughts
over and over and over again,
it becomes a belief.
Now, the question is, what is
that charged with in the brain?
Is a positive thinking?
Is it negative thinking?
Is there some relevance to that?
But if I'm dominant with
a particular type of brain
frequency, then that
becomes my set point.
So if I worry all the time--
and this is one of the
things we try to measure
is, like, 32 different emotions.
So joy and contentment have
a whole different frequency
to them than despair
and worry and anger.
So let's take a real
quick example of that.
Let's suppose I'm
driving down the highway.
And somebody cuts me off in
traffic, and I get angry.
Well, now I'm vibrating this
angry energy, the frequency
of where anger is.
And I go home,
and I tell my wife
about this knucklehead that cut
me off, and go to the office,
and I'm telling
everybody how angry I--
well, I'm vibrating
that angry energy.
And there's a law in
physics that basically
says if you continue
to vibrate that energy,
within 17 seconds, other
energy that is like that
will be attracted to it.
So we're going to
get more thoughts.
And our brain says, well, if
you like that negative thought,
how about this one,
and how about this one?
And so let's say that I
go to the grocery store,
and I'm still thinking about
all these angry thoughts.
And I get in line, and I've got
three items I want to pay for.
But there's somebody
in front of me
that they have 38 items
in the express line--
something to get angry about.
And then the cash register
is not working properly.
And the person running the cash
register, it's their first day.
So we begin to
attract those things--
>>REGINA: Those circumstances.
>>FANNIN: --those circumstances.
>>REGINA: It's
self-perpetuating.
>>FANNIN: Right.
And people talk about
self-fulfilling prophecies.
This is how it works.
We now understand,
from the neuroscience,
exactly how and why it works.
>>REGINA: But if you're looking
at it from that perspective,
then, and you start to look
at the ramifications of it,
isn't the actual processing
speed of our brain
and other mechanisms
affected, then, by that?
>>FANNIN: Well, I don't know
if it's the processing speed.
There are two
parts that process.
The conscious part of
our brain processes
at 40 bits per second.
And it kind of is
like the traffic cop
that helps decide
what's real, what's not,
what's going on with me, do I
like this, do I not like this.
>>REGINA: Now let's
add depression to that.
Let's say you're depressed now.
Then what happens?
You're angry or, say,
depressed even more so.
>>FANNIN: Well,
taking depression,
what we know about depression
is that if I have too--
we want alpha in the back of
the brain, nine to 12 hertz.
And if I have too much alpha
in the front of the brain,
I'm going to
experience depression.
So that being out of
alignment is basically
what causes those
kinds of things.
But the subconscious
part of the brain
processes at 40 million
bits per second.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
Who wins?
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
And that's where our
subconscious resides,
that's where our
perceptions reside,
and that's where that's the
thalamic gate is that processes
from the field into ourselves,
and how our thoughts get out
into the field.
Well, what is it transmitting?
Let's say, if I'm
wanting to have
more positive associations,
and I'm thinking,
well, I want more
positive friends,
I want more positive
friends, but I'm
broadcasting, because of
my subconscious belief,
I'm not worthy of
having friends,
I'm not worthy of having
friends, or I want more money,
or I want more this or
that, that's the mechanism.
The real question is,
what's worth wanting?
And so by being able to
break that down and say,
getting a core belief
system that helps us
automatically think, where
we're not having to fight this.
And I think that's the
direction that we're
moving with understanding
how these mechanisms work.
And then it's a
matter of practicing.
So even though our
parents may have
done a really rotten
job of bringing us up,
and we have all
of those things--
that used to really amuse me.
I would do something
in my life, and then I
would go, where
did that come from?
And I'd go home, and
I'd see my parents.
I'd go, there it is.
>>REGINA: There it is.
It's subconscious.
It's embedded in there.
I have a question.
Why is it that the
negative energies--
which often trauma is negative.
I mean, it's very seldom we
have positive trauma in life.
So what is it about
the negative that
seems to have such mass
to it and take hold
so deeply, versus these
sublime positive events that
happen in our life, which seem
so ephemeral, that with just
the tiniest impetus of something
negative, those just-- poof,
they tend to go away?
What's going on there?
>>FANNIN: Well, that's
a great question.
I love that question.
What happens with--
and first of all,
let me start by saying that 75%
of our thoughts are negative.
And so what happens is,
with that negative thinking,
there is a lie out there
that we have to choose.
So we have to have the contrast.
Without the contrast
there would be no reality.
It's kind of the yin
and the yang of things.
So I've got to have what
I don't want in order
to understand what I do want.
The problem is most of us,
a large majority of us,
tend to automatically focus on
the negative side of things,
what will happen.
And we understand,
from the brain--
and this is part of how
the brain is structured.
There's a part of the
brain called the amygdala.
And that's kind of
our fear detector.
But it also manages most of
our other emotions as well.
And so when the
amygdala gets fired off,
it allows us to be safe.
It's trying to get us
to get out of the way.
The dinosaur is chasing us.
>>REGINA: That's pretty
primitive survival stuff.
>>FANNIN: Right.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FANNIN: But it's also linked
to the prefrontal cortex.
And that's where we make a lot
of our decisions and so forth.
But when the amygdala gets
fired off over, and over,
and over, and over,
pretty soon that becomes
part of our set point.
That becomes part of
our way of thinking.
We become habituated,
or we are--
oftentimes we call it
an amygdala hijacking--
that anything seems
like a threat.
Anything seems like
something to worry about.
And so when that happens, then
we start looking at life that--
what could go wrong?
>>REGINA: And now
this is reinforced--
I've said this in
many other interviews
because it's a reality.
The media at large is
there to reinforce that.
There seems to be-- if you
want to look at it even
as an agenda, to just keep the
negative information rolling,
to give a false perception
of how dangerous our world is
to live in.
And studies have been done
on this, where, in reality,
the world wasn't nearly--
the stats were pointing out that
crime had actually gone down,
home invasions and different
things, murder rates,
and yet the anxiety and worry
about them within the given
community study was
going up because those
are being reinforced
from the outside as well.
And we only have
just a few seconds
till we take a little break.
I'm just going to leave it on
that, and have you come back
and comment on this
phenomena a little bit more.
So we'll take a quick break
and we'll be right back.
OK, we're back.
And we were just
talking about how
so much of our external
world is reinforcing
these negative brain states.
We're buying into it.
Now, you say 75% of our thoughts
are negative to begin with.
Before we go into the really
mystical aspect of your work
here, let's just wrap that
for a moment, of what it takes
to budge us into a new
vibrational pattern that
can start sustaining, and
sustaining, and sustaining
positive thoughts.
>>FANNIN: I want to
go back to answer
the question about the media in
general, why is so much of that
negative.
Well, I think one of
the reasons they found
is because that's what most
people are familiar with.
And so it feels normal
to most of the people
in the population, if 75% of
our thoughts are negative,
and we go down that road--
>>REGINA: Feed it.
>>FANNIN: We feed it.
And so by feeding it,
it's the same thing,
that we are causing those
things to fire over and over,
and over.
And so all it does is
create more of that.
So when we have a thought--
think about the thought grid.
Imagine a tic-tac-toe board.
And in the center of that grid
is going to be our thought,
the central thought.
We start having a
negative thought.
And in 17 seconds, we
have another thought.
And so that's going to
fill in another square.
And in 17 more seconds,
we have another thought.
Well, if you keep doing
that for 68 seconds--
and there's real mathematics
that go along with that--
it creates momentum.
And that momentum
then puts us on a path
that that's what we do and
that's what becomes familiar.
So the interesting thing
about that is the opposite
is also true.
If I stay in joy,
contentment, happiness,
and I choose to have
thoughts like that,
and utilize a thought
grid in that way,
what am I going to get?
Same result.
>>REGINA: And that's where
meditation, appreciation, all
these higher states come in.
>>FANNIN: Exactly.
And that's why--
>>REGINA: Necessary.
>>FANNIN: So we're
just using the system,
the laws of the universe,
in order to enact.
But most people are
just doing it by rote.
They don't understand
why they're doing it.
And so now I think we're coming
into an age of awareness,
and how do we achieve
higher consciousness,
how do we begin to be the
co-creators that we really are.
>>REGINA: And we also have
the technology to bear it out.
I mean, you're working also
with Konstantin Korotkov's
technology that can
show and demonstrate,
after a person goes through
the PSYCH-K process,
you not only have
your acute EEG,
but you have that to work with.
You have other
technologies to work
with to prove and reflect back
to ourselves your good work
has actually paid off.
It's not just someone's
opinion anymore.
You can see it in living color,
which I think is astounding.
And I want to go into
some of that now.
You have done some work
with that technology
I just mentioned--
Konstantin's-- having
to do with the aura,
and watching what has happened
in response to some of the work
you and Rob did.
Can you talk about that?
>>FANNIN: Yeah, exactly.
We're getting different ways of
measuring what's going on here.
And Konstantin's work is
exactly that, the ability--
it's not Kirlian photography,
it's something totally,
totally new, totally
revolutionary,
where it's able to look
at these elements, these--
and I don't like
using the word, aura,
but I think that's what most
people would understand.
The information that is
coming from around the body
and in the body, the
cellular elements of that,
the vibration, the resonation--
that's what we're
getting, is the resonation
from the cells in the body, and
able to map that information.
>>REGINA: And this is
really quite accurate.
>>FANNIN: Very accurate.
>>REGINA: Right
down to the degree
that an organ is under
or overperforming.
I mean, it's quite accurate.
>>FANNIN: It is.
And some of the
things that I saw
were using a PSYCH-K
balance, where
several different
representations, one
of those showing what
the organs of the body
were doing prior to
a balance, and then
what happened afterwards.
They also have
some representation
showing the chakras, how they
were completely out of balance,
and then doing the
PSYCH-K balance,
actually bringing the
whole brain state in.
They didn't know that
that's what they were doing,
but that's what happened.
The whole brain state appeared,
and it realigned the chakras.
>>REGINA: So now you're taking
Konstantin's technology,
you're applying Rob's
PSYCH-K, and you're
watching and
overseeing the mapping
process that's going on.
And so we can see
this lineup now
of the effectiveness of the
PSYCH-K for one practice.
I mean, there are
other modalities too,
but that just happens to be one
really profound one that you're
working with.
>>FANNIN: Yeah, and I
think that's the bridge
between science
and spirituality.
It's not so mystical
and weird anymore.
By grounding it
in science, we're
able to then take a look
at it and say, oh, I
understand what this is.
And I think that's what's
going to help create
more mainstream awareness.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And now there's
another subject that I
wanted to get into with you.
And we all are comfortable
speaking-- well,
a lot of people watching right
now, I think a lot of you--
and I am very
comfortable speaking
about the notion of being
surrounded with beings
of different frequencies.
A lot of times we'll
call them our guides,
or some people call
them angels, but beings
that are just beyond
the veil that are here
to help us navigate through
because we seem to have
lost our own
connection with self,
to give ourselves our own
guidance, or for whatever
reason.
But along with that, we're
also as vulnerable to entities
that might be here just surfing
to do something else entirely
different.
Because it's really
just slightly off phase.
There's a whole
other world that we
can't see, of frequency,
and beings, and disincarnate
beings.
I want you to talk a little bit
about what your thoughts have
been on this, and what you have
discovered regarding influence
from the outside from
disembodied beings,
before we go to your
experiment with Rob.
>>FANNIN: OK, what we
understand about that
is that all happens in a
higher frequency range.
When you look at levels
of higher consciousness,
for example, people who have
had Kundalini experiences,
it literally changes the tuner.
And I think that's where
we're going in terms of being
able to manipulate the tuner.
So you talk about when we
have this negative energy.
Well, how well does
your tuner dial in?
It's kind of like when you
dial to a radio station
and it's not quite
on the station.
You can still hear it, but you
get the static and so forth.
And that's when the negative
thinking and such, there
is literally a mathematical
formula that causes--
it cancels out.
And this is in some of
Bruce Lipton's work, where
he talks about
constructive interference
patterns and destructive
interference patterns,
of when we are in that positive
alignment that that happens,
and then when there is a lack of
what we call phase locking in--
>>REGINA: What
does that mean in--
>>FANNIN: Well, in real terms,
it means if you have two waves,
one wave that is coming in from
one direction and meets up with
another wave, if they
are out of phase--
>>REGINA: Meaning
there's no resonance,
that the resonance isn't there?
>>FANNIN: Right.
What it does is
mathematically cancels out.
And so that's where some
of the negative element--
that's what we would call
negative or destructive
interference pattern.
And the constructive
interference pattern,
what it does is,
when it's in line,
it actually doubles
the amplification.
So if the peak of
the amplitude is 1
and the bottom of
the trough is 1,
and you match that up
with another frequency
coming in that is in phase
with that, then it doubles it.
And so we end up with
what's called harmonic--
>>REGINA: So that's a positive--
>>FANNIN: --resonance.
>>REGINA: --resonance.
>>FANNIN: Yeah, it's
a positive resonance.
We call it harmonic resonance.
And we've seen it all the time.
Many people would
remember the commercial
with Ella Fitzgerald,
you know, is it
live or Memorex, and
the glass exploding,
and that sort of thing.
Well, that's harmonic resonance.
When the amplitude
reaches a certain part,
the resonation in those
elements within the glass
then get to a point
where it's too high
and they have to disperse.
We use it in medicine all the
time to break up kidney stones.
Harmonic resonance is
just a focused energy.
Well, we're now
learning how to utilize
some of that stuff
with this up here.
>>REGINA: Now how
does that work?
>>FANNIN: [CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: And now we're
talking higher spectrum
of the frequency at this point.
>>FANNIN: That's right.
>>REGINA: Leading toward
more positive states
of consciousness and experience.
>>FANNIN: One of the things
that was very interesting to me
as I was reading a
large number of studies
was how is it Qigong masters
can focus their energy in such
a way that they can heal cancer
cells in Petri dishes 10,000
miles away?
How does that work?
That was very curious to me.
>>REGINA: And Leonard
Laskow did a lot
of that work out of Berkeley,
I think, with Beverly too.
And they were proving that
out in a scientific setting.
>>FANNIN: Right.
There's a huge amount of
research over the years
to help us understand
that that's
the interaction with the field.
And so it gets back
to this whole notion
of the brain, the
brain tuner, how well
is it defined, how well is
it able to function, not
only within the 0 to
60 hertz, but above.
Higher levels of consciousness--
and so those beings
that we can't see, they
function above that range.
If we could speed up our
ability to vibrate at that rate,
we would be able to see them.
>>REGINA: Right.
But often we can feel
them, sense them,
and communicate with them even
if we can't see them, per se.
>>FANNIN: They're able to
slow down that oscillation
to the point where
it then interacts
with our resonation in
our body and our cells,
and what goes on
in the thalamus.
And that's the
communication that goes on.
>>REGINA: Now, have
you seen this hooked up
to the electrodes,
and EEG or QEG?
>>FANNIN: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: Have you
seen the effects of it?
What does that look like
when a person has maybe
raised their own
frequency enough,
and others have lowered their
frequency enough to where there
is this communication
with beings from a higher
state of vibration?
>>FANNIN: It's the same kind
of thing looking at people who
channel and who do the
psychic work and that--
>>REGINA: Pretty much
that's what I'm asking.
>>FANNIN: --going back to what
we were talking about earlier.
>>REGINA: Is it a
whole-brain state?
>>FANNIN: Well, yes and no.
It has a property
all of its own.
It seems to start
over here, in delta,
on the left temporal area.
It moves across the
sensory motor strip,
over here to the right side,
which is our emotional centers.
But going across that
sensory motor strip,
it allows it to feel in
our consciousness, so
our sensory motor
strip, our senses.
And by affecting whatever
frequencies are there,
we get the sense of that.
And our motor strip, we then
get the feeling for that.
And so that's how some of that
communication takes place.
I wish we had more time to
talk more deeply about it--
>>REGINA: I understand, I just
wanted to brush on it to ask
you, you can actually--
>>FANNIN: We can see it.
We can measure it.
>>REGINA: You can measure it.
You can see it.
And also I brought
this up with Rob,
and I'll bring it up with you.
Patrick Flanagan,
one of his devices
he created when he
was a youngster--
Patrick's thought to be
the reincarnation of Tesla.
And we've done a couple
of interviews with him--
is that he created something
called a neurophone that
had the express
function of shortening
the synapse time
between the right
and left hemispheres
of the brain.
And when we were talking a
couple of days ago, off camera,
you were very piqued by this.
Because what I just heard you
say there, this is really key.
Shortening the speed
of communication
between the right
and left hemispheres
has to be critical in
achieving whole-brain state.
>>FANNIN: Well, it is.
When that time
period slows down,
the corpus callosum,
there is the transfer
of information going from
left and right hemisphere
back and forth.
When we go into
worry, for example,
when we perceive something as
a threat and our amygdala's
fired off, we might
go into worry.
And that's brain's way
of dealing with fear.
And so it kind of
shuts that off.
But what it really does is
reduces our productivity,
and we're not able to think
or cognitively function.
So when we speed that up-- and
that's what the whole brain
state actually does, it
allows for a faster transfer
of information through
the corpus callosum.
And so when that happens--
so with what you're talking
about--
when those connections
are shortened,
and in the whole-brain state--
and this is what we've been
able to measure--
that's exactly
what happens there,
is there is good information
from left and right hemisphere,
but you also have to have
harmony from front to back.
And that's key in
making all the odds.
Now, how do you do that?
>>REGINA: I was
just going to say--
>>FANNIN: You shorted
the connections.
>>REGINA: Yes.
It's the same thing.
So the neurophone
device, if it does what--
well, Patrick, apparently they
couldn't even measure as IQ.
He did it to enhance his own
IQ and to enhance his ability
to absorb massive
amounts of information
when he was 13,
when he developed.
>>FANNIN: Well, let me throw
something in from our clinic.
When we do the
brain mapping, one
of the elements
that we can do is
called predictive
neuropsychological scores, IQ.
And so most people don't know
that that's what they're doing.
So when we're doing a brain
map and we take the readings--
eyes open, eyes
closed, brain on task--
and then we process it, they're
amazed to see what their IQ is.
It's based on the
Weschler IQ test.
And so what goes on is,
when we had that report,
it's based on connectivity
within the brain.
And so oftentimes when we
are training the brain--
let's say that somebody has
an IQ somewhere between 90
and 105, which would
be considered normal--
and it can give us a
predictive value based
on the connections
within the brain,
and show us what their
brain's potential is doing.
So by retraining
the neural pathways,
we see that indicator
or the number go up.
So does the IQ increase?
No, not really.
The brain gets more efficient
at dealing with that.
And so what Patrick is
dealing with in terms of that
is creating the optimal
amount of neural pathways
to be extremely efficient.
We are kind of on the
leading edge of neuroscience,
but he's way on
the leading edge.
>>REGINA: Well, he's been on the
way leading edge of everything
for probably lifetimes.
>>FANNIN: But we're now able
to understand what that means.
And that only means that we're
going to get better at it.
And we're now beginning
to show people how to do.
The technology is there.
We can measure it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And we can also,
through technology,
enhance those states.
And we can, through our
own internal technologies
such as PSYCH-K, do that.
Now let's go back
to PSYCH-K. Let's
go to the experiments you
did with a disembodied entity
of a positive nature.
And this was between
you and Rob Williams.
He used himself as the subject.
>>FANNIN: Yeah, let me
set that up for you.
>>REGINA: Please.
>>FANNIN: When we sat
down to try and do this--
we did this in 2010,
and it's only now
that we're writing some papers
and releasing that information.
Because the time is right
for that to come out.
And he and I had some
conversations about this--
you know, "are you going to put
your money where your mouth is"
kind of thing.
And so we decided, all
right, we can't go back.
We have to tell it like it is.
We have to tell the story
the way it really happened.
But here's what went
down when we recorded it.
Because we had no idea
what we were going to get.
We hadn't done this before.
Nobody had done this before.
And so we did the baseline--
eyes open, eyes closed,
with Rob, and his
brain on task--
recorded that so we would have
something to measure against.
And then we sent out a list
of about 10 or 12 recordings
that we were going to do.
And there's a process in PSYCH-K
called segregation, which
allows one higher self to
link up with another as long
as the permission protocols
and things are there.
So Rob's wife, Reyes, was
facilitating, I was recording,
and then Rob was
actually doing that.
So when you think
about it, it wasn't
that it happened, you know,
one day and the next day.
It was five minutes
of recording,
break the segregation,
new permission protocol,
five minutes of recording.
And we did that with
every single one.
Well, if you look at it from
purely an EEG perspective,
we're using Rob's
brain, and we're just
recording every five minutes
of what's going on there.
It should all look the
same, shouldn't it?
>>REGINA: Except he's choosing
each time to connect with
what--
>>FANNIN: That's right.
So what the intention
was-- and we said,
now, put the
intention out there--
if this is something
that we are supposed
to be able to measure, then what
we need is a different energy
signature from each of
those that we are measuring.
So I can only
imagine what it was
like on the other side,
where they're going,
I'm going to do this,
well, I want to do this,
no, no, you can't have
that, I want this.
So when we processed that,
I mean, I was shocked--
I mean, totally
shocked, more than I
think I have ever
been in my life,
because that's
exactly what we got.
We got different signatures
for every single one.
>>REGINA: And explain
who he was calling
in on the field
of consciousness.
>>FANNIN: Well,
we wanted to look
at different consciousness.
So we looked at Earth
consciousness, Gaia,
we looked at Christ
consciousness.
We looked at Buddha
We looked at human
consciousness.
And then we also wanted to
look at disincarnate beings.
And Rob tells the story
about what happened--
>>REGINA: Right,
Edgar Cayce, Tesla.
>>FANNIN: Edgar Cayce
and Nikola Tesla.
Well, I'll give
you the other side
of the story of what happened
to me when I actually hooked up
with him.
So the alpha-theta
training is something
that we do where we
hook some wires up,
and basically it cycles you
between alpha and theta.
And it keeps you
from going to sleep,
and keeps you from being awake.
>>REGINA: Through a
neurofeedback device,
[INAUDIBLE].
>>FANNIN: Neurofeedback
device, right.
And so it took me two days to
think about whether I really
wanted to do this, and
what was this all about,
and did I really believe that.
And I thought, if you're going
where no man has gone before,
just do it.
So I did.
And the interesting thing
about that is I'm wired up,
and I'm sitting there.
And after about four or
five-- with my eyes closed,
I'm getting this image of Tesla.
You know, you see
these pictures,
and he has this kind of very
interesting look in the eyes.
The eyes are a dead giveaway.
And that's what I saw.
That's the only time
that I had seen that.
But I knew that
what was going on.
And so his signature
and Cayce's signature
are similar but very
different, because they
wanted us to know that.
And so there are
many beings who are
trying to help this work come
forward, not just what we're
doing, but with all of humanity,
with all of consciousness
as we move forward into
this new area of awareness.
>>REGINA: So you were
pretty much shocked
to see that there was a
physical representation
for the difference in
each of those connections
that Rob was making.
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
And we've done more
of that in the center.
I'll give you just a real
quick story about this.
He had a young man who was
kind of a borderline autistic
individual.
And he hadn't been
doing well in school.
And his mother, who
was a physician,
she wanted to do some
PSYCH-K with him.
And I thought, gee, I'm
not sure that this is
going to work out really well.
And kind of put it off, and
put it off, and put it off.
And finally she really
pressed me to do it.
And so I wasn't sure he would be
able to respond appropriately.
So we had her stand
in as a surrogate.
So he's in the other room
doing his brain training.
And so she was acting
as the surrogate,
and did some social
skills things with him.
Well, she comes back
three or four days later,
whenever her next appointment
was, and she says,
you're not going
to believe this.
She said, he came home
from school the other day
with some papers
in hand and said,
I'm going to run
for student council.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>FANNIN: If you
understand anything
about those kids who
have Asperger's, social
is not what they do.
But that's what he did.
And he developed
a whole campaign.
Unfortunately he didn't win.
But he was very close.
He got into a runoff, and
only lost by a few votes.
But it was something that
he was willing to take on.
And we've got lots
of stories like that.
>>REGINA: No, I find that
absolutely fascinating.
And I just wanted to say this
part about the surrogate part.
The way Rob does it, where
he's working with kinesiology
or muscle testing--
so as a surrogate--
from what I recall from
years ago with Rob, is
you would be wanting to
work with, say, my son.
So through me, my field is
connected with my son's field
of consciousness.
You would be testing,
through my musculature,
to access the other
person once you've
been given permission, on a
soul level, to do that, right?
>>FANNIN: Right.
And with the muscle testing,
we would be asking, instead
of you testing
strong to your name,
you would test strong
to your son's name
and weak to your own name.
>>REGINA: Just to give people
an idea of how that works.
>>FANNIN: Right
that helps validate
that the segregation is there.
And then you're able to
release it when you're done.
But it works.
And we've measure it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>FANNIN: And we have a
lot of research to go.
And we're just scratching the
surface now of what we can do,
what we will do in the future.
And we live in an
amazing, exciting time
where we have not only these
processes and procedures,
but people are hungry for it.
And we have the
technology to help us.
It's not the technology.
What we need the
technology for is
to help people discover
their own divinity
and this connection
that goes on,
and how we can improve
as human beings,
how we can improve our
performance our ability
not only to get this three
pounds of gelatinous stuff
up here tuned up, but also how
to use it more appropriately--
what's worth wanting.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And also this comes back
to self responsibility.
Everything comes back to
self in the end, which is to,
as Rob and I said, you
have to make the choice
to want to make these
changes through all of this.
And just to kind of go back
into some of the territory we've
already been in--
because we've talked
about a lot of subjects--
we've talked about the aura,
though you don't like
to call it the aura.
Let's just call it
our living matrix
that's interpenetrating
with the outside matrix,
the field of consciousness.
So if you see yourself
as a being that
has a subconscious which
is interpenetrating
that field we call the aura--
it's all contained there--
that the mind, the memory,
is not in the brain,
but it's also out there,
and that we're simply,
by our decisions and by how
we choose to tune ourselves,
creating the quality of
our life experience--
and the reason I bring
it up is because when
you did these auric
photographs, you
took someone that
was out of harmony,
you took Rob's program,
and worked with PSYCH-K
to begin tweaking
the subconscious
to take on a new story.
And then you took the after.
There were holes in this energy
field before, perforations--
>>FANNIN: Right.
>>REGINA: --which can allow
a lot of strange things
to happen in general.
And it was all smoothed
out, and the holes
had been basically
filled in afterward.
>>FANNIN: And it doesn't take
weeks, or months, or years.
It happens instantaneously.
And people are marveled by that.
But how long does it take
to change atoms of energy?
Nanoseconds.
>>REGINA: Nanoseconds.
And so our body--
that's another thing
that fascinates me,
is on a cellular level-- if you
look at us on an atomic level,
the amount of sheer space--
if we understand the amount
of space that we are,
we can understand
the speed at which
we can influence it, right?
>>FANNIN: Right.
>>REGINA: In the field
of consciousness.
OK, now this is all
going into areas
that you hadn't planned on when
you became a neuroscientist.
>>FANNIN: [CHUCKLES]
This is true.
>>REGINA: And now you and Rob--
I want you to talk for a little
bit about how this has been
received in your community.
Because usually the people that
are the frontrunners in science
are the first ones that are
run out of town on the rails.
>>FANNIN: Yeah.
Well, when we started
this, we said,
we have to do the science.
It has to be impeccable.
Because if we're going to do
this, we have to do it right.
And so we kind of went in
with the philosophy of,
you may not agree
with our conclusions,
but show us where
the science is wrong.
And with that basis, and having
an opportunity to do some
pretty high-level research
and science on some meaningful
things--
I mean, you can only
imagine the hoops
we had to jump through just to
get into West Point, to deal--
and they're now changing the
way they turn out leaders
as a result of what
was learned there.
But anyway, being able
to move into that realm,
like publishing the papers--
we published one paper--
we wanted to write for
different audiences.
We did all of this research
on the whole-brain state
and so forth.
So we wrote one
paper, and it was
published for the
psychotherapy community,
to help them understand
in their language
and their lexicon
of what that means.
We published one just recently
in the "International Journal
of Management and Business"
to help understand leadership
management, and business,
and how all of this
fits in that realm.
But the one that was
most nerve-racking for me
was the publication in
"Neural Connections."
This was in my own backyard,
of neuroscientists,
of people that know me.
They were putting
out a special edition
of neuroscience and leadership.
And so they had asked
me to do an article.
And so I thought, oh, boy, I'm
not sure I want to do this.
Because what I was expecting
is people throwing rocks,
push-back, ostracizing me.
And it was just the opposite.
>>REGINA: In your field.
>>FANNIN: In my field.
>>REGINA: And your people.
>>FANNIN: And then
people were sending me--
do you have an article on this?
And have you heard about that?
And the push-back that I
thought was going to come,
it hasn't happened
in any of the realms.
Because people are ready,
they're aware, they're hungry.
They want to know more.
And that's what makes
this so exciting.
We are just--
>>REGINA: No kidding.
>>FANNIN: --living in
an incredible time.
This is an incredible journey.
And I can't wait
to see what's next.
>>REGINA: That's one of
the most optimistic views
of all of this I've heard.
Because so many
people I interview
have gone through this brutal
process of being rejected
by their own profession
because they dared
go out on a ledge a little bit.
But you've done it, and
you're being embraced
in one of the areas that is
the most significant, which
is understanding how
our own brain interfaces
with our reality--
in the creation of our reality.
That's amazing.
>>FANNIN: Yeah,
well thank goodness
I didn't have to go
to Copernicus route,
and wait till I
was on my deathbed
and say, here's the science.
You deal with it.
I'm leaving now.
>>REGINA: No, no.
You still have plenty
of time to deal with it.
We only have a minute left.
Really quickly, what are
you, and Bruce Lipton,
and Rob Williams up to now?
>>FANNIN: Well, we're getting
ready to take a lot of this--
and we call it the
Nature Consultancy--
to show how sustainable
success is so out of balance
with the principles of nature.
And Bruce has written about
this in some amazing ways.
And so we're going to take
this out and show people
the mind-brain-body
science of all of this.
And it's going to be
not just informational,
but transformational.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Well, thank you so
much for joining us.
Thank you for your work.
And we'll probably talk
here again, I'm sure.
>>FANNIN: I hope so.
Thank you, Regina,
for having me.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Jeffery.
This has been absolutely
fascinating process
of discovery for me.
I hope it has been
for you as well.
To learn more about
Dr. Fannin's research,
you can go to
enhanceyourbrain.com.
You'll see many
beautiful images of what
our brain looks like in
all these higher states
that we've discussed today.
This should be
enough proof positive
that it's to
everyone's advantage
to spend conscious time
toward balancing our brain
states in whatever the most
effective way is for us.
Until next time, thanks for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]